So now that you know what VoIP is,
let's check out some main flavors of VoIP,
starting with the ATA, or
the analog telephone adapter,
and that's just the most simplest and
most common form of VoIP and
it's just a little box that you can use
for your, to connect your phone into and
you have VoIP calling instead
of a traditional landline.
How does it do it?
It just, an ATA is just a ADC, which
stands for analog to digital converter,
so it will take the analog signal that
comes from the phone, convert it to
a digital signal, and then send it through
the Internet for someone else to receive.
ATAs are normally bundled
by service providers, so
instead of the service provider
giving you the normal landline,
kind of traditional phone service, you now
have web calling capabilities instead.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Next we have the IP phones.
>> Right.
>> And so IP phones is
just very similar to a landline
phone with an ATA built into it.
>> Yeah, it's just an ATA built into it,
so it looks like a normal phone, but
instead of traditional
phone calls you have
Internet protocol phone or
VoIP phone calls.
>> And so IP phones, so most of the phones
that exist today, most smartphones all
have IP phone capabilities, so whenever
your smartphone's connected on wi-fi or
on an additional network, you basically,
your phone is basically an IP Phone.
And what that means is that the hardware
and the software to make WiFi calls or
VoIP calls, any of those things,
they're already built into the phone,
you don't need any external software, you
don't need to get any external hardware.
Everything's built in.
>> You know what else makes for
really good VoIP IP phone?
>> What?
>> The Dragonboard.
>> Right!
>> Would you believe that?
>> Completely forgot about that.
So, you guys have been watching three
courses on the Dragonboard so far, and
the Dragonboard is essentially an IP phone
and it has all the WiFi capabilities.
It has the hardware built into it,
and it has the soft, and bring you,
as soon as you get the operating system,
you also have the software built into it.
>> Right.
You just set up the software and
you can just call anyone
with the Internet.
>> Yeah, and we're gonna be teaching you
how to do all those things later on in
the course, too.
>> And
finally we have the computer computer.
>> Right.
>> So the computer computer calling is
the easiest way to use VoIP in most cases,
and in almost all the cases I
can think of is usually free.
>> [LAUGH]
>> For instance if you have Skype.
If you have Skype and the person
you're trying to call also has Skype,
even if they're in some other part
of the world in a different country,
Skype call is 99% of the time it's free,
and you can talk for as long as you want.
You have video call and audio call and
you don't need any external hardware or
software.
An external hardware, like computer
computer, it's pure software.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you have to download the software.
As long as you have the software,
it's a pure software business thing, so
it can take care of that.
>> Yeah, it'll be very good as long as
set up to like a microphone, speakers.
>> Right, so you need a webcam and
all those things, and
the only charge that comes with the
computer computer calling is that you have
the monthly Internet charge that you have
to pay anyway if you're using Internet.
Other than that it's probably
the easiest way to use VoIP, and
with that we'll see you in our next video.